Kamal is a tool for deploying your web applications anywhere.
Whether you're using Cloud VMs or your own hardware,
Kamal makes it really easy to deploy new versions of your applications.
It has built-in zero downtime deploys,
it can do rolling restarts,
it even does asset bridging,
and all sorts of other fancy things that you need to deploy a modern web application.
Kamal was originally built for our move out of the Cloud at 37signals.
We moved Hay.com and a bunch of other applications out of the Cloud
and onto our own hardware.
But it works just as well,
even if you're just getting started and you want to get started with those Cloud VMs.
You can use any Cloud VM provider and retain the same toolkit,
whether you're jumping from one provider to another,
or if you're ready to move on to your own hardware.
It is much easier to have an exit strategy if you're using a tool like Kamal.
In our case, that meant saving a whole lot of money moving out of the Cloud.
But the key point with Kamal is really to have the flexibility
that a simple tool that doesn't require a PhD in Kubernetes
will allow you to do the basic work of getting your application updated.
Kamal is built on top of Docker and SSH and a bit of Ruby to tie it all together.
It is not a complicated tool.
You can read through the source and understand what is going on.
Yet it is really everything you need.
We're deploying seven applications using Kamal at 37signals at the moment
and converting all our legacy Capistrano applications to Kamal in the near future.
So let me show you how it all works with a quick demo
where we will build a basic block and deploy it to two different Cloud providers.
We're going to build our basic block on top of Rails 7.1 with MySQL and Tailwind.
We're going to go into this jump and we're going to generate a basic scaffold here.
It's just going to have a title and a content to set up a interface that we can use.
Let's get the database created and migrated
so that this is added and ready to go all just locally at the moment.
We're going to assign this to the root of the application
so that we can access it directly on port 3000.
Let's create a quick post here to see that everything is working locally.
You can see that it is.
This is basically all we needed.
Oh, yeah, we have this slash up where we will point our load balances to
that will return a green color and the error code 200 okay, if everything is going fine.
This is what the load balancer can use when we are deploying new versions
to know that everything is running with the latest version and safe to switch over.
So we will set up a set of VMs here on Hetzner.
We're going to use three of them.
We're going to use one for the database and two for app servers.
You can see we'll just create three of the same basic VMs here.
Set them up, get them generated on Hetzner.
As you can see, we have three IP addresses right here
that's going to be ready to use in our configuration file for Kamal.
We're also going to set up a load balancer between the two app servers
so that we can point a single domain to a single IP.
It's going to check on that up that I just showed you before
to make sure that everything is up and available.
And now we're going to initialize Kamal.
Kamal can either be installed from Ruby gem or tied up to a Docker command.
Here we're using the Ruby gem.
It's generating a handful of files,
mainly the config slash deploy YAML, which is the one we're going to change.
The end file, which is where we're going to store our environment variables and tokens.
And finally, a set of hooks that I'm going to show you at the end of this video.
So if we take a look at this deploy YAML file, you can see here,
there is a service declaration, images, servers, registry,
all the things you need to tell Kamal,
where are you hosting your containers
and where do you deploy your applications to.
So if we change that out to be a blog
and we have my username against Docker Hub, we have a place to put it.
We're going to take some of these commented out sections
and stick them into the real deploy YAML configuration here.
There's going to be a Rails master key secret.
If you use a different framework,
you might have another type of secret that you need to inject.
All these secrets are coming from the dot end file,
which is where we're going to set them up in just a second.
And then we have a clear environment variable with the DB host
that we will use to point the application servers to the database.
We also have that root password for MySQL as we're setting it up.
We're just going to use a standard MySQL 8 image
that can be auto configured on boot.
It has a description here where you can see
that we could import a production config file.
We're not going to even bother with that.
We're just going to keep the defaults.
But what we are going to bother with is putting in our IP addresses
for the two app servers
and then putting in the IP address for the database.
As you can see, it needs to go in two places.
It both needs to be inside of Kamal.
So Kamal knows where to deploy the database accessory
and it needs to be injected into the application VM
so that they know where to access that database.
All right, we are also going to bootstrap this new database
with production.sql.
This is a file we can generate inside of our application
and change it there.
For now, all we need to do is actually just create the database itself.
It's going to be blog underscore production,
matching the Rails defaults.
The MySQL 8 database, when it's booted,
will run these files just once to initialize the database
and then we can run our migrations
to add the tables that we need for the database itself.
All right, we also need to configure the production settings
for the database in Rails.
We're going to point it to that DB host
and we're going to reference the password we had.
Then we're going to jump into the .n file,
which is where we're going to set up the tokens that we need.
We have the Rails master key that I just copied over
from the config slash master key.
We're going to put that in here
and then we're also going to add a root password
that's just auto-generated for MySQL
that is going to be both the password used to bootstrap
the MySQL instance that we set up under accessories
and it's also going to be the password we give to Rails
so that it has access to it.
And then finally, you have to change
the Kamal registry password.
I'm not going to post my password token in here,
but you have to change that.
If you use Docker hub, you can generate a token
and put it in there,
the same with any other registered that you use.
Just make sure, of course, that after you've updated this,
you make sure that you have a Docker ignore file
where you are ignoring the .env file.
You do not want to check those tokens
into your version control system.
So in Docker ignore and in git ignore,
we make sure that the environment file is ignored.
Instead of having a straight .n file,
you'd also have a .n template.
Here's an example of using one password as the secret store
and then you can use the command Kamal nvfi
to take that template that you can check into
version repository and generate the .n file
that you actually use to deploy.
These .n files are pushed to the servers as part of setup,
but then if you change them into future,
you have to do Kamal nv push
to push the new nvs to the different servers.
What's nice about that is that not everyone on your team
might need to have access to these tokens
and you can therefore just update the environment files
from the machine that does have access when you need to.
But let one final thing before we start deploying here,
we just need to hop into the Rails production configuration
where by default Rails 7.1 at least at the moment
has force SSL on.
We're gonna deploy without SSL for a moment
while I show you just how the basic works
and then we're gonna turn it back on a little later.
So let's turn that off and then we can check
the whole repository into git and we can do our setup.
So as you can see here, Kamal is doing the setup
against these IP addresses on the app servers
and on the database servers that we configured.
It's ensuring that Docker has been installed.
In this case, it has not been installed
because these are fresh VMs,
so it will install Docker on those machines
and after it's done installing,
it'll proceed with the rest of the deploy.
I've sped this up somewhat in the first deploy,
we are using Docker locally to build with Quemu.
This means that we're using a Apple Silicon chip
to build for Intel that takes a little while.
In fact, I think in this case,
it takes about four minutes the very first time you do it
when the caches are cold.
But after the caches are hot, it goes much, much faster
and in production, you can actually use a remote built
instance on an Intel machine, so it goes at full speed.
We're doing deploys at 37signals in between 20,
30 or 40 seconds to get everything set up.
As you can see here too, when we are deploying,
we're doing all these retries to make sure
that the container is actually ready to serve traffic.
We have a whole little dance with a chord file
and so forth to ensure that zero downtime deploys
are successful every time and that we never lose
a request to a 500.
All right, now we have set everything up
and we have our load balancer ready.
We can hit that load balancer and create a new post
on the application actually running on Hetzner,
the three reamps we have set up too for the app
and one for the database.
And as you can see here, when we create one,
it has been successfully created.
Go back and see the index.
Everything is working in production.
Of course, as you can see up there, it is saying not secure.
We're not running on SSL yet.
We are just running over HTTP, hitting that load balancer
that then hits the app servers.
If we make a change to the app, just a simple change here.
We check that in to get once more
and then we deploy a second time.
This goes much faster.
I've still sped it up here,
but it is quicker to do it the second time around.
You can see it took just over a minute
and this is still running through that Qemu emulation.
If you run with a matching chipset,
it again goes much, much faster.
We can reload here and see really good posts.
We made the update to our application.
This is the basic workflow of Kamal.
You make a change to your application.
You push it out, it gets updated.
No downtime, everything is ready to go.
Now let's add SSL to the equation.
We are going to add a subdomain
onto this exit software that IO domain I have.
We're gonna point that to the load balancer under blog.
Let's access that and you see it's exactly the same thing.
Let's create a new post here and see if it works.
Oh, it did not work.
What is going on?
Let's see what that error is generating.
If we look at the inspector, we see it's a 422,
unprocessable entity.
Let's copy the request ID, then hop into Kamal.
Search for that request ID
and we will find the error code for that.
So we can use Kamal also to inspect the logs
that are just being logged through the normal Docker setup
when you have something happening right away.
As you can see right here,
we completed a 422 unprocessable entity.
And why is that?
It is because we are submitting from HTTPS,
but Rails thinks we are on HTTP
and therefore there is a mismatch.
So let's hop back into that production,
RB file to update the configuration.
This was the one we changed before.
We are going to force SSL on this time,
now that we have a proper domain
that has an SSL certificate associated with it.
And we're also gonna turn on assume SSL.
This is a setting needed because the load balancer
that we're using on Hetzner is not configured for SSL,
but the Cloudflare setup we are using
is configured for SSL.
You of course can also set up
that you have full SSL termination
between your CDN, Cloudflare, and your backend.
But in this simple example,
we're just gonna do it like this.
So now that we have these set up,
we will submit once again and we'll do redeploy.
That's a shorter path when you don't need
a little bit of housekeeping than we normally have.
It goes even quicker than it did
before shaving off about seven seconds
from the deploy we had before.
And now we are live, can try to post again and it'll work.
Great, we have fixed the error.
It has to quick turn around and we can make a fix
and we can push it out right away.
All right, now let's set ourselves up
with our second data center.
We're gonna use a digital ocean for this.
We're gonna set up exactly the same configuration
as we had on Hetzner.
There's gonna be three machines, block app one, two,
and the DP server.
They're gonna be set up in the same way.
We're just waiting here to get some IP addresses
that we can associate with the load balancer.
And then we can paste those IP addresses
into a new configuration file
that we're gonna create as a second destination,
which is a term that Kamal uses
for allowing you to deploy in two different places.
It's gonna be deploy.do.yaml.
We're gonna paste in the standard deploy.yaml file
and we're gonna pare it down to just the points of difference,
which is really the IP addresses
as they are different between the two deployments.
As you can see here, we need nothing else
because it will inherit from the deploy.yaml file.
So all the other configurations will be shared
between the two destinations.
And that means we are basically ready to go
after we've copied in the IP addresses
for the database and the application.
And once that's done, we can add the destination to git
and then we can deploy with std.do.
So that means that we're using the do destination file,
which we'll just look for config slash deploy.do.yaml
and merge that into the basic deploy.yaml.
And as you can see, we're going through the same rhythm here
in installing Docker since it was not already on the machines,
then doing the full deploy and an entire deploy
because our local Docker cache for building the app image
was hot, it takes just two minutes.
So in two minutes, we have moved from Hetzner
to digital ocean and are now deployed
in two different data centers at the same time.
This is the magic of Kamal.
It is giving you an exit strategy,
an easy move strategy from one deployment type to another
without any reconfiguration beyond throwing
in a couple of IP addresses.
Great, as you can see here,
the load balancer has also picked up a change.
We're going to point our domain to the new setup.
And as you can see, it is exactly the same as it was before.
It's just running a new data center
on a new database, of course.
Here we have some other details that we can look into,
Kamal commands that we can inspect our setup with.
There's Kamal details,
which will give us just a basic outline
of what's running where.
You can see we have the traffic load balancers
that we're using for the zero downtime deploy.
It's running on its own setup.
And then we have the app servers
and the database accessory.
We can also run that against the digital ocean destination
and see we have the same things running
just on different IP addresses.
It is the same configuration.
A different thing we can run here is an audit.
The audit is here run against the digital ocean deploy.
And you can see exactly what happened.
Who pushed what when?
You see we're pushing those end files
onto the servers for the first time.
We're pulling down the image with a given version.
We're tagging that as the latest image
and we're booting the app version that fits with it.
And then we're cleaning up after ourselves,
taking away old containers, old images
that are no longer needed.
We can also run commands on these servers.
Here is an example of running the Rails runner
just to output the Rails version
on the original Hester installation.
You see we're running version seven one beta one.
In addition to running full commands,
we can run interactive commands like a Rails console.
This is starting the Rails console on the digital ocean side.
And we can interact without the main model
like we would the Rails console in any other context.
So here if we load the first post
and we update that post from the console,
you see we go back to the deployment,
see the old value, then we can reload
and there we go from the console.
This is how you can act with a production app
to solve issues and introspect errors
in your domain model and in your database.
Now let's hop back to that installation we had on Hester
and then let's look at the containers
we deployed to that installation.
There's a variety of different updates we've done here
since we changed the app.
We will take the oldest version that we did
and then we will roll back to that old version.
When you do a rollback,
you don't need to build the application again
and therefore you can see it could happen in just 20 seconds
between doing the zero downtime deploy.
And now if we go back here, it won't be really good posts.
It'll just be posts as the original set
of the application was.
So that is the rollbacks.
We also have these hooks.
So you can hook into the lifecycle of Kamal.
We have a post deploy, pre-built, pre-connect, pre-deploy.
On the post deploy is a hook that we often use
to pipe something into chat.
For example, in Basecamp or another chat system,
you can call in with Curl or something else
and you get all these values to give information
to the rest of the team that something has been deployed.
If you look at the pre-built here,
this is a set of preconditions
that we want to apply before we build a new image.
We wanna make sure, for example,
that there's a clean checkout
and remote is configured.
You can put in whatever you want here
and Kamal will fail to do the build
and therefore do the deploy
unless all these preconditions have been satisfied.
All right, we are basically done.
We can therefore proceed to remove the full Kamal installation
first here on Hetzner.
It's going to remove all the application data
and all the images that are on the server.
Let's remove all of those
and then let's also remove the database
and we will have cleaned up fully after ourselves
and these IP addresses will be gone
or scrubbed down to just a Docker installation.
We're removing it here from due to solution as well.
And that is it.
This is a quick tour of Kamal
deploying a small but real application
to two different data centers, two different cloud providers.
And it is just as easy to deploy this
to your own hardware if you feel up for that.